An IAB associated with other attacks in Belgium initiates a targeted attack against a remote office. The attack begins with a series of abnormal or undeliverable emails sent days before the attack. These emails, often garbled or unreadable, are designed to simulate a technical issue, creating a pretext for intervention. The actor prioritizes offices undergoing closure, relocation, or operational changes, as these conditions may create weaknesses in following policy and procedures.
The adversary then executes a vishing campaign, and calls its victims leveraging the local language. The threat actor impersonates an existing IT engineer working at BARISTA or its contracting companies and additionally spoofs its phone number establishes trust and credibility with the target.
Under the pretext of resolving the email issue, the threat actor instructs the victim to enter a customized domain into Windows File Explorer. This domain is personalized to include the office’s name or location as a subdomain (wildcard) and the URL path incorporates the targeted employee’s name, enhancing credibility.


The action will open the victim’s browser and web server redirects the browser to the threat actor’s Microsoft OneDrive. There, a password-protected zip file, disguised as a legitimate software fix, is presented for download.
During the vishing call, the adversary verbally provides the password, instructing the victim to extract and execute a shortcut file within the zip. The actor may also guide the victim in bypassing Windows’ Mark-of-the-Web (MotW) security warnings, ensuring the malicious payload is executed without suspicion.
The shortcut file inside the zip points to a legitimate application within a directory in the zip, which is weaponized, either directly or through DLL sideloading and grants the threat actor remote access to the victim’s computer. Once access is secured, the adversary establishes several persistence mechanisms and make them as stealthy as possible before going silent, preparing to monetize the initial access by selling it on the dark web.
